# CS540-AI

Me: Zhihao Shu
Professor: Chuck Dyer (UW-Madison)

## HW-1 Maze Sovler 
Given a two-dimensional maze with a starting position and a goal position, your task is to write a Java program called FindPath.java that assists a robot in solving the maze by finding a path from the start node to the goal node (as described below) if one exists. The program must accept command line arguments in the following format:
'''
     $ java FindPath maze search-method
'''
The first argument, maze, is the path to a text file containing the input maze as described below, and the second argument, search-method, can be either “bfs” or “astar” indicating whether the search method to be used is breadth-first search (BFS) or A* search, respectively.

## HW-2 Take-Stones Game Playing
Implement the Alpha-Beta pruning algorithm to play a two-player game called Take-Stones. Follow the algorithm pseudocode described in Figure 5.7 of the textbook. Different versions of the Alpha-Beta algorithm may lead to different values of alpha and beta.

## HW-3 Binary Decision Trees
In this problem you are to implement a program that builds a binary decision tree for numerical attributes, and binary classification tasks. By binary tree, we mean that every non-leaf node of your tree will have exactly two children. Each node will have a selected attribute and an associated threshold value. Instances (aka examples) that have an attribute value less than or equal to the threshold belong to the left subtree of a node, and instances with an attribute value greater than the threshold belong to the right subtree of a node. The programming part requires building a tree from a training set and classifying instances of both the training set and the testing set with the learned decision tree. Code has been provided for printing your decision tree in a specific format. You may change the code if you wish, but the output must be in exactly the same format that the provided function produces.

## HW-4 Back-Propagation for Handwritten Digit Recognition
In this problem you are to write a program that builds a 2-layer, feed-forward neural network and trains it using the back-propagation algorithm. The problem that the neural network will handle is a multi-class classification problem for recognizing images of handwritten digits. All inputs to the neural network will be numeric. The neural network has one hidden layer. The network is fully connected between consecutive layers, meaning each unit, which we’ll call a node, in the input layer is connected to all nodes in the hidden layer, and each node in the hidden layer is connected to all nodes in the output layer. Each node in the hidden layer and the output layer will also have an extra input from a “bias node" that has constant value +1. So, we can consider both the input layer and the hidden layer as containing one additional node called a bias node. All nodes in the hidden layer (except for the bias node) should use the ReLU activation function, while all the nodes in the output layer should use the Softmax activation function. The initial weights of the network will be set randomly (already implemented in the skeleton code). Assuming that input examples (called instances in the code) have m attributes (hence there are m input nodes, not counting the bias node) and we want h nodes (not counting the bias node) in the hidden layer, and o nodes in the output layer, then the total number of weights in the network is (m +1)h between the input and hidden layers, and (h+1)o connecting the hidden and output layers. The number of nodes to be used in the hidden layer will be given as input.

## HW-5 A Naïve Bayes Classifier for Sentiment Analysis
One application of Naïve Bayes classifiers is sentiment analysis, which is a sub-field of AI that extracts affective states and subjective information from text. One common use of sentiment analysis is to determine if a text document expresses negative or positive feelings. In this homework you are to implement a Naïve Bayes classifier for categorizing movie reviews as either POSITIVE or NEGATIVE. The dataset provided consists of online movie reviews derived from an IMDb dataset: https://ai.stanford.edu/~amaas/data/sentiment/ that have been labeled based on the review scores. A negative review has a score ≤ 4 out of 10, and a positive review has a score ≥ 7 out of 10. We have done some preprocessing on the original dataset to remove some noisy features. Each row in the training set and test set files contains one review, where the first word in each line is the class label (1 represents POSITIVE and 0 represents NEGATIVE) and the remainder of the line is the review text.
